Socrates: I went down to the Piraeus^ yesterday with Glaucon, son of
Ariston,^ to pray to the goddess; and, at the same time, I wanted to observe
how they would put on the festival,^ since they were now holding
it for the first time. Now, in my opinion, the procession of the native
inhabitants was fine; but the one the Thracians conducted was no less
fitting a show. After we had prayed and looked on, we went off toward
town.
Catching sight of us from afar as we were pressing homewards,
Polemarchus, son of Cephalus, ordered his slave boy to run after us and
order us to wait for him. The boy took hold of my cloak from behind
and said, "Polemarchus orders you to wait."
And I turned around and asked him where his master was. "He is coming up behind," he said, "just wait."
"Of course we'll wait," said Glaucon.
A moment later Polemarchus came along with Adeimantus, Glaucon's
brother, Niceratus, son of Nicias, and some others—apparently
from the procession. Polemarchus said, "Socrates, I guess you two are hurrying to get away to town."
"That's not a bad guess," I said.
"Well, " he said, "do you see how many of us there are?
"
"Of course."
"Well, then," he said, "either prove stronger than these men
or stay here."

"Isn't there still one other possibility . . . ," I said, "our persuading
you that you must let us go?"
"Could you really persuade," he said, "if we don't listen?"
"There's no way," said Glaucon.
"Well, then, think it over, bearing in mind we won't listen."
328 a Then Adeimantus said, "Is it possible you don't know that at sunset
there will be a torch race on horseback for the goddess?"
"On horseback?" I said. "That is novel. Will they hold torches
and pass them to one another while racing the horses, or what do you
mean?"
"That's it," said Polemarchus, "and, besides, they'll put on an all- night festival that will be worth seeing. We'll get up after dinner and go
to see it; there we'll be together with many of the young men and we'll
talk. So stay and do as I tell you."
And Glaucon said, "It seems we must stay."
"Well, if it is so resolved,"^ I said, "that's how we must act." Then we went to Polemarchus' home; there we found Lysias'^ and
Euthydemus, Polemarchus' brothers, and, in addition, Thrasymachus,^
the Chalcedonian and Charmantides, the Paeanian,^ and Cleitophonji**
the son of Aristonymus.
Cephalus,!! Polemarchus' father, was also at home; and he
seemed very old to me, for I had not seen him for some time. He was
seated on a sort of cushioned stool and was crowned with a wreath, for
he had just performed a sacrifice in the courtyard. We sat down beside
him, for some stools were arranged in a circle there. As soon as Cephalus
saw me, he greeted me warmly and said:
"Socrates, you don't come down to us in the Piraeus very often,
yet you ought to. Now if I still had the strength to make the trip to town easily, there would be no need for you to come here; rather we
d would come to you. As it is, however, you must come here more fre- quently. I want you to know that as the other pleasures, those con- nected with the body, wither away in me, the desires and pleasures that
have to do with speeches grow the more. Now do as I say: be with these
young men, but come here regularly to us as to friends and your very
own kin."